---
title: 'Medium Access Control Protocol for Coexisting Cognitive Radio Networks'
date: 2016-10-02
permalink: /posts/2016/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This project was done as my graduate (MSc) thesis requirement. I worked as an **graduate research assistant** in Green Networking Research (GNR) Group, under the supervision of Dr. Abdur Razzaque, at the University of Dhaka. This work was funded by the **Ministry of Information and Computer Technology, Bangladesh**.

Abstract
======
Opportunistic usage selection of a licensed channel by a secondary user (SU) and its contention for data transmission is a challenging problem in coexisting cognitive radio network (CCRN). This is caused by the presence of many SUs from different CRNs in a shared environment, and the problem is further intensified when the user applications, with heterogeneous quality-of-service (QoS) requirements, require prioritized access to the opportunistic spectrum. The state-of-the-art protocols did not address the problem of efficient coexistence following both the dynamic spectrum availability and prioritized medium access. In this paper, a weighted fair medium access control protocol, namely WF-MAC, has been developed for overlay CR network that gives users proportionate accesses to the opportunistic spectrum following their application QoS requirements. The channel availability prediction using autoregression (AR) model and channel utility perception using exponentially weighted moving average (EWMA) facilitate WF-MAC to achieve more stable and fair access to the opportunistic spectrum. Our simulation experiment results depict the efficiency of the proposed WF-MAC protocol in achieving better spectrum utilization, weighted fairness, throughput, and medium access delay compared to the state-of-the-art protocols.